{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10320\viewh13800\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In the supplementary information for their Nat Meth paper they specify (supplementary note 1, section 2) the parameters to use for the PSF model, for the 40x and 20x objectives:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For 40x 0.8NA objectives we generated a PSF with input parameters: Magnification 40, NA 0.8, fml 3125\uc0\u956 m, MLpitch 125\u956 m, n 1.33, wavelength 520nm, OSR 3, z-spacing 2\u956 m, zmin -30\u956 m, zmax 30\u956 m, Nnum 19 \
For 22.5x : Magnification 22.2, NA 0.5, fml 3125\uc0\u956 m, MLpitch 125\u956 m, n 1.33, wavelength 520nm, OSR 3, z-spacing 4\u956 m, zmin -156\u956 m, zmax 156\u956 m, Nnum 19. 
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
However, it is not clear from the paper which objective they actually used for which dataset! For the Medaka heart in Fig 2, their scalebar implies a z range of 220um - but their numbers for the PSF imply z ranges of 60 and 312um respectively. I would guess from that that they probably used the 20x objective for the Medaka, but it\'92s not unambiguously clear! I don\'92t know which they used for their bead dataset.\
\
\
For the data Nils sent me, he says:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 	
\f0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 I found the rect params i.e. the input to the image rectification matlab script :\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Right cam 440.5551 435.2629 19.2232\
	Left cam\'a0 435.0393 422.3455 19.1729 \'a0\
\
\
For the data Nils sent me, timepoint X40 corresponds to their blood/beating heart video (MIPs), timepoint 234ms. Note that what they are displaying there is the \'93right\'94 camera rather than the left. \
Their use of the \'93fire\'94 lookup does suppress the focal plane artefacts somewhat, in that it makes the dimmer true features behind the artefacts more visible. In the greyscale colourmap, the artefacts dominate much more. It\'92s also worth noting that in my opinion frame 40 has slightly less going on in it than e.g. plane 41.\
When I fix the \'91max\'92 bug and look at the MIP of my new reconstructions, the artefacts do seem to be diminished. It\'92s not a vast improvement, but it is definitely an improvement.}