{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16280\viewh13720\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Things to think about\ulnone \
How does my approach fare with dense volumes (where reconstruction might start to be difficult/ambiguous)? Does it fare better than a structural reconstruction (whether the raw data is lightfield or something else like Daniel\'92s)?\
\
Can this be applied to single-pixel imaging etc for moving samples? In retrospect it seems very obvious that it can be: if there are two or more measurements of each pattern then just attempt to reconstruct with different candidate flow fields and see which reconstructs the best. (or could use priors instead of repeated measurements). 
\b I should talk to Neal
\b0  etc about whether things like this have been done before.\
Note: another way of looking at this would be to distort the 
\i masks
\i0  based on the hypothesized flow, and reconstruct. I think the two reconstruction methods are completely equivalent.\
\
[Vague:] can I apply my approach to compressive measurement of flow? What do I even mean by that? Is it as simple as doing simple-pixel imaging without sufficient measurements, and seeing which flow field gives best match? What is the best reconstruction algorithm to use under those circumstances (and does it matter)?\
\
I could do correlation-averaged flow with sparse flows, just to prove the point.\
(What does correlation-averaging actually look like in my case? That needs thinking about. I think it might mean doing multiple reconstruction attempts in parallel with different frame pairs, but the same underlying candidate flow field)\
\
\
\
\ul References\
\ulnone \
SPIE paper \'93Video compressive sensing using Russian dolls ordering of Hadamard basis for multi-scale sampling of a scene in motion using a single pixel camera\'94 is very brief but uses motion flow explicitly measured from a low-resolution reconstruction to correct the higher-resolution reconstruction. They don\'92t really talk about how they do the motion correction. They say: \'93each row of the sensing matrix can than be corrected for the motion during the acquisition\'94. I don\'92t think they specify how they do that correction at all, though it\'92s not exactly rocket science.\
\
IET journal paper that I cannot access: \'93Single-pixel compressive imaging based on motion compensation\'94. I don\'92t know what this paper involves, but the abstract is not written in good english. The closest to an explanation is \'93Instead of ignoring the motion during sampling, the proposed method first builds the compressive sampling model based on motion compensation during sampling, and then reconstructs the image by frame-by-frame recovery method and joint recovery method\'94.}